README.md, before:

openvpn
=======

A module for managing OpenVPN daemons. The module supports template-based 
servers and clients, as well as those based on a static configuration file with 
inlined certificates. The former is recommended, because use of static 
configuration files does not scale well.

The module can optionally reuse existing Puppet certificates for OpenVPN.

# Module usage

A Hiera example where a dynamic server with (hopefully) sane default 
configuration is setup:

    classes:
        - openvpn
    
    openvpn::dynamic_servers:
        office:
            vpn_network: '10.160.0.0'
            vpn_netmask: '255.255.255.0'
            use_puppetcerts: false
            tunif: 'tun10'
        push:
            - 'route 10.260.0.0 255.255.255.0'
            - 'dhcp-option DNS 10.260.0.1'
            - 'dhcp-option DOMAIN internal.company.com'

Here we setup a client to connect to the above server, and occasionally to an 
external VPN service provider using a static configuration file:

    classes:
        - openvpn
    
    openvpn::dynamic_clients:
        office:
            remote_ip: 'office-vpn-server'
            tunif: 'tun10'
            use_puppetcerts: false
            enable_service: false
    
    openvpn::inline_clients:
        vpn_provider:
            tunif: 'tun11'
            enable_service: false

For more details please refer to the class and define documentation:

* [Class: openvpn](manifests/init.pp)
* [Define: openvpn::server::dynamic](manifests/server/dynamic.pp)
* [Define: openvpn::server::inline](manifests/server/inline.pp)
* [Define: openvpn::server::ldapauth](manifests/server/ldapauth.pp)
* [Define: openvpn::client::dynamic](manifests/client/dynamic.pp)
* [Define: openvpn::client::inline](manifests/client/inline.pp)
* [Define: openvpn::client::ldapauth](manifests/client/ldapauth.pp)

# Dependencies

See [metadata.json](metadata.json).

# Operating system support

This module has been tested on

* Debian 7
* Debian 8
* Ubuntu 12.04
* Ubuntu 14.04
* Fedora 21
* CentOS 7

The following operating systems should work out of the box or with small
modifications:

* FreeBSD

For details see [params.pp](manifests/params.pp).

Commit message:

Move documentation from manifests/server/dynamic.pp to README.md
Signed-off-by: Samuli Seppänen <samuli.seppanen@gmail.com>

README.md, after:

openvpn
=======

A module for managing OpenVPN daemons. The module supports template-based 
servers and clients, as well as those based on a static configuration file with 
inlined certificates. The former is recommended, because use of static 
configuration files does not scale well.

The module can optionally reuse existing Puppet certificates for OpenVPN.

# Module usage

A Hiera example where a dynamic server with (hopefully) sane default 
configuration is setup:

    classes:
        - openvpn
    
    openvpn::dynamic_servers:
        office:
            vpn_network: '10.160.0.0'
            vpn_netmask: '255.255.255.0'
            use_puppetcerts: false
            tunif: 'tun10'
        push:
            - 'route 10.260.0.0 255.255.255.0'
            - 'dhcp-option DNS 10.260.0.1'
            - 'dhcp-option DOMAIN internal.company.com'

Here we setup a client to connect to the above server, and occasionally to an 
external VPN service provider using a static configuration file:

    classes:
        - openvpn
    
    openvpn::dynamic_clients:
        office:
            remote_ip: 'office-vpn-server'
            tunif: 'tun10'
            use_puppetcerts: false
            enable_service: false
    
    openvpn::inline_clients:
        vpn_provider:
            tunif: 'tun11'
            enable_service: false

If you use an external CA, you need to place the CA cert as well as the
client/server certificate and key to the Puppet fileserver:

    "puppet:///files/openvpn-${title}-${::fqdn}.key"
    "puppet:///files/openvpn-${title}-${::fqdn}.crt"
    "puppet:///files/openvpn-${title}-ca.crt"

Even if you decide to reuse Puppet certificates and keys, you need to generate
two additional files per OpenVPN network and place them to the Puppet
fileserver:

    "puppet:///files/openvpn-${title}-ta.key" (TLS auth key)
    "puppet:///files/openvpn-${title}-dh.pem" (Diffie-Helmann parameters)

To create the TLS auth key do

    cd /etc/puppetlabs/code/files
    openvpn --genkey --secret openvpn-${title}-ta.key

To create the Diffie-Hellman parameters do

    git clone https://github.com/OpenVPN/easy-rsa
    cd easy-rsa/easyrsa3
    ./easyrsa init-pki
    ./easyrsa gen-dh
    cp dh.pem /etc/puppetlabs/code/files/openvpn-${title}-dh.pem

For more details please refer to the class and define documentation:

* [Class: openvpn](manifests/init.pp)
* [Define: openvpn::server::dynamic](manifests/server/dynamic.pp)
* [Define: openvpn::server::inline](manifests/server/inline.pp)
* [Define: openvpn::server::ldapauth](manifests/server/ldapauth.pp)
* [Define: openvpn::client::dynamic](manifests/client/dynamic.pp)
* [Define: openvpn::client::inline](manifests/client/inline.pp)
* [Define: openvpn::client::ldapauth](manifests/client/ldapauth.pp)

# Dependencies

See [metadata.json](metadata.json).

# Operating system support

This module has been tested on

* Debian 7
* Debian 8
* Ubuntu 12.04
* Ubuntu 14.04
* Fedora 21
* CentOS 7

The following operating systems should work out of the box or with small
modifications:

* FreeBSD

For details see [params.pp](manifests/params.pp).
